OK so it's time to practice what you've learned in this section.
So the first thing that I'm going to do and I've already created the usual package and class is I'm
going to add a Person class.
So class person and then I'll have a first name which will be a string.
They'll have a last name also a string and they'll have an age.
OK so now I'm going to add a main method.
So Main and let's add the following code vowel.
Joe equals and he's a person his first name is Joe his second name is Jones.
And let's say he's 45 and now I want to be able to do the following vowel F..
Name no name and age equals Joe.
And then I want to print line f name equals F. name our name equals Al name and age equals age.
And so your first challenge is to make this compile.
Do what you have to do to make this code compile because right now we have a compilation error here.
So I paused the video and give that a try now.
OK.
Well this one shouldn't have been too bad.
In fact the error message tells us what we have to do essentially we need to add the component and functions
to the Person class in order to make this work.
Now there are two ways we could do this.
The first way is to just make it a data class.
Boom done.
And the reason for that is we get the component and functions for free in data classes so that was one
possible solution.
The other solution lets say we didn't want this to be data class for some reason we're going to do a
lot more in this class than just store state.
So the other reason is to explicitly add the component and function.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
Now the one thing here is you always have to use the operator keyword for the component and functions
so we'll say operator fun component 1 and we want to return the first name and then we'll say operator
one component to and we want to return the last name and then operator fun component 3 and that will
equal the age.
And now we compile.
So let's go ahead and run
and we have F name equals Joe Al-Naimi calls Jones and age equals 45.
So that works.
Just remember that when youre coding the component and functions you always need the operator key word
in front they have to be operators.
All right so now I'm going to type in some more people.
So we've got our our Joe person and all type in a few more people here so I'll say Val Jane equals person
Jane snaps.
So make her yeah.
She can be 12.
These aren't employees I just went in for a moment.
Why.
Why am I making an employee 12.
But these are people not necessarily employees.
So we have Mary and she's Mary Wilson and she'll be 70 years old.
Pesky bracket there.
And then we have now John and he's a person as well.
His name is John Adams.
And he'll be 32.
And finally we have gene or you Joie.
Perhaps if you if you live in a francophone area and we'll see Gene or John Smithson I guess if it was
Zsa maybe there'd be a different last name here in 66.
OK so using this data I want you to create an immutable map and the key for the map should be the last
name of the person.
So the key should be the last name and the value will be the person instance.
So create an immutable map that contains all of this data.
The key for each entry should be the last name and the value for each entry should be the person instance
so paused the video and go ahead and do that now.
OK welcome back so we want an immutable map so I'm going to say Val people equals map because we want
an immutable map and then we'll say Jones to Joe because we want the key to be the last name and we
want the value to be the person instance and then it's just going to be the same for all of them.
So Smith to Jane
Wilson to Mary Adams to John and Smithson to Gene.
Now if you wanted to in a real world application we probably upper case or lower case a last name to
make sure if we were receiving input or something that it would match in fact we probably use an ant
but I'm not doing any of that here.
We're just demonstrating stuff here and getting you to stretch your Cartland muscle.
So this is how you create an immutable map for this data where we're using the last name as the key
and the person instance is a value.
OK so now that you have this map I want you to print out how many people have last names beginning with
S and I want you to do that without using an explicit loop.
So you should be able to do this in one statement.
So print the number of people in the people map that have last names beginning with ass and do it without
using an explicit loop.
In other words you shouldn't be using four or 4 each or anything like that.
You should be able to do this in just one statement.
So give that a try and I'll see you in a bit.
OK how did you do with that one.
I'm going to give you my solution yours might be different.
So print line people Daut and I'm going to use the filter here because the first thing I want to do
is get the people who have last names that begin with s.
So I'm going to say I dot value dot last name dot starts with and S starts with.
So at this point I have all the people with last names that begin with s because they are the only ones
that are going to pass the filter.
And then all I want to do at this point is count them.
So I'll call a count.
Now you could also use the key here instead of going out value dot last name you could say itx key.
I like doing it this way because it makes it obvious that we're filtering on the last name and that
might not be obvious if we just put key.
But if you put key here that's fine.
You may have found a different way to do it without having to explicitly loop.
This is my solution.
So we call filtered to get the people with the last name of asked.
And then we just count how many people are in the result.
So let's run and we should get to know our answer.
And we do there are two people in our people map that have the last name beginning with S.
Ok so now what I want you to do with this map is I want you to create a list of pairs from this map
and the first item in the pair should be the first name and the last item in the pair should be the
last name and I want you to do this once again without using a loop.
So you should end up with a list of pairs and the first pair will have Joe as its first value in Jones's
second value.
The second pair would have Jane is the first value in this is second value etc..
So create a list of pairs of first names and last names without using a loop and then go ahead and print
out the list of pairs.
After you finish.
So give that a try and I'll see you in a bit OK.
How did you do with that one.
There are a couple of ways that I thought of to do this one and once again your solution might be different.
So the first way that I did it was to say vowel name pairs equals.
And then I said people dot map and then for each entry I create a pair that consists of the first name
and the last name and that's it.
That's the solution.
So remember that when you use map whatever is in here is executed for every entry.
So I'm saying that for every entry in the map create a pair that consists of the first name and the
last name.
And then I'll go ahead and printout name pairs and we'll run.
And I have my list of name pairs.
Joe Jones Jane Smith Mary Wilson etc. So that's one way.
Another more verbose way that I thought of is to say Val first name equals people dot map and I want
to get the I-T value of first name.
So this is actually a list of first names and then on our last name equals people dot map T-top value
dot last name.
So this contains last names.
Maybe I should call these first names and last names just to make that clear.
And then I'm going to say vowel name pairs two equals and I'm going to say first names don't zip last
names.
You remember we took a look at this zip function and what it does is it creates pairs so it matches
the first bite him in the first list with the first item in the list it's called with the second item
in the list it's invoked with the second item in the list it's called with what you know etc..
So I'm going to say print line name pairs.
And I should get the same result.
So I'm going to run
and I do so that's two potential ways of doing it.
This one's a lot more concise but in this line we're not using a loop either so you might have come
up with one of these two solutions or maybe you came up with another solution as long as you're not
explicitly looping.
Because I asked you not to do that because obviously you could do it by explicitly looping But the challenge
was not to explicitly loop.
So as long as you're not explicitly looping and you get this result you're good.
All right.
So we talked about lambdas with receivers and we looked at the Wiz and apply functions but there are
other functions that also work with receivers.
And one of those is the also function.
So the also function also works with receivers.
What I want you to do is I want you to read up on this function and then use it to print out the following.
Using the people map.
So I want you to out.
Show is 45 years old Jane is 12 years old Extra.
So for each entry in the map you should printout a line that says how old they are.
So go ahead take a look at the also function you should be able to find documentation on ranch's using
your favorite search engine and then use it on the people map to print out a line for each entry in
the map that tells us how old that person is in this format.
So I see in a bit.
Good luck with it.
All right.
Welcome back.
Well if you read about the also function and I hope you did you'll know that it works like the Apply
function but you use it instead of this inside the lambda to refer to the receiver object.
So let's go ahead and use it to do what the challenge asked to do so we'll save people dot also so the
people map is the receiver object for whatever they Lamda that we're going to write in here and we'll
say it map.
So I-T refers to the people map and we'll say print lying and we want to print.
I'm going to open up the expression here I've got value.
First name suggested it to me and then took it away.
And then we'll say is and then we want to print out I T-Dog follow you dot H.
Years old and that's it.
So let's go ahead and run and we get Joe is 45 years old Jane is 12 years old etc. This print line is
coming from underneath here.
So as I said the difference between Also and apply because otherwise they're pretty much the same as
you use it instead of this inside the also LAMDA.
So why would you want to use Also instead of apply.
Well it can come in handy when for some reason you don't want to use this inside the lambda.
Maybe the code surrounding this statement is also using this to refer to something else and so you don't
want any confusion that could be one reason.
But essentially it does the same thing as apply.
Ok so now I'm going to type in two lists and I'm going to want you to do something with those lists.
So I'll do that down here I'll say Val just one equals.
And this is going to be a list.
And it's just integers 1 4 9 15 and 33 and then our second list will be a list of integers as well.
But this time we'll have 4 55 minus 83 22 and 1 0 1.
So we have these two lists and I want you to create a third list that only contains items that are in
both of these lists.
And I want you to once again do that without using an explicit loop because of course with this challenge
just like the other ones you could do in x.
Do it using an explicit loop but I don't want you to do that.
So what I want you to do is to create a third list and that list should contain all the matching items.
So the resulting list should contain four because four is in both lists and it should contain 15.
I meant to add 15 here so it should contain the resulting list should contain 4 because four is in both
lists and should also contain 15 because 15 is in both lists and create that list without using an explicit
loop.
So good luck with that and I'll see you in a bit.
All right.
Welcome back.
There are a number of ways you can do this so your solution might not match mine at all.
There are verbose ways we can do it and there are concise ways we can do it.
I'm going to show you two of the concise ways.
So the first way is I'm going to say Vallis three equals I'm going to say list one dot filter because
when you think about it we want to grab items in the lists that match a certain condition.
So filter is ideal for that.
And in this case we're going to say if the item in list 1 is also in bliss too we want we want it in
our new list.
And so that's the solution here.
So what's going to happen here is each item in list one is going to be substituted for it.
And then if that item is also in list to we want it in our list so let's print line lists three lists
three equals list three and let's run and we have our list with four and 15.
Now we could also do it as follows I'll comment this out so that you have both solutions and I'll say
Vau lists three equals and once again we're going to use filters.
But instead of using in and we could say List 2 contains I-T.
So that's another potential solution.
So in this case we're we're saying for each item in list one call list 2 contains with it.
And if this returns true then of course we've got a matching item and we'll add it to our resulting
lists so let's run.
And again we get 4 in 15.
Now as I said there are a number of ways you can solve this.
There are some really verbose ways where instead of using inning contains you could explicitly write
a longer lambda that tests whether you know list 1 or whatever it equals list 2.
Now you can do it that way but the concise version that I've shown you are a lot easier to read.
And they are concise so that's why I've chosen to show you these two solutions.
OK so now let's move on and I'm going to type in a few classes here.
I'm going to say.
Class box t.
And I'm going to create an E class called paper.
And in fact not going to make this open because I'm going to create two subclasses of paper.
Now I'm going to create a class of regular paper which extends paper and I'm going to create a class
of premium paper which also extends paper.
Okay that's fine and dandy so we've got a paper class it's got two subclasses called regular and premium.
And we have this box of T.
So let's go back up to our main function and I'm going to save Val regular paper equals the box of regular
paper.
So here am.
I'm using regular for T and then I'm going to say Vau paper equals box of paper that's valid too.
In this case I'm using paper for T.
And now I'm going to say paper equals regular paper.
Now this looks like it should work right because a box of paper could be a box of regular paper but
right now it doesn't.
It does not compile.
So your challenge is to do whatever you need to do to make this line compile.
So good luck with that and I'll see you in a bit.
Okay welcome back while we have two problems here one is pretty trivial if we look at this it'll say
Val cannot be reassigned so this is an easy fix we just make it var.
And now that's gone away but now we're getting a type mismatch.
A box of paper is what the compiler whines and we're giving it a box of regular.
So what are we trying to do here.
We're trying to assign a box of paper with a box of one of papers subclasses.
So ideally what we want is when it comes to box of tea we want t to accept T or any of T subclasses
because in this case we want to be able to assign a box of regular to a box of paper.
And so we want to be a little more relaxed and say well you know what we'll accept tea or we'll accept
a subclass of T because in this case that would mean that in this case we'll say that because paper
is a box of paper well it will also accept a box of subclasses of paper and that's what we've got.
We've got a box of regular.
So what does that sound like when we want to be more relaxed so that it accepts T and any of its subclasses
Well that sounds like covariance.
So to get this to work we need to make the box class covariant.
And we do that by adding the out key word and Ka-BOOM.
Here we go.
Our error has gone now as a reminder once we've done this once we've made baulks covariant.
We can only take papers from the box.
We can't add papers to the box because t now can only be in the out position and that's the return type
of a function so we can do this.
We could say fine take paper and that returns T and I need to give this function a body.
Now I'm getting an error because I'm not returning anything because you know I'd have to declare a list
and all of that and return.
But we can do this.
We're not getting an error on the function signature but we can't do this.
We can't say fun add paper and we're going to add a paper of type T because we'll see here that type
parameter T is declared as out but occurs in the in position.
Now if we could add papers to the box.
Let's assume this compiled we'd be able to do this we'd be able to say paper dot add paper and add premium
paper
because we've said that a box of paper shoot the T should be able to be the class or any of its subclasses.
And here we're accepting T.
So if this was to compile we're not getting compile compile error here because a compiler can see this
function but it does function doesn't compile.
So we can't actually do what we're doing up here and now you can understand why.
Because at the moment we have a box of regular paper stored here.
But here we're we're coming along and adding premium paper.
So if this could compile we'd now have a what's supposed to be a box of type premium regular paper rather
with a premium instance in it.
And obviously you know that's not that's not supposed to happen.
And so this is why once we declare boxes out we can no longer have to be in the position we can only
read this class now instances of this class we can no longer change them we can't write them.
And so this is a no no
.
I'll keep that there just and I'll put a comment saying ahead.
Now just to remind you of the other case contravariant if we wanted t to accept T and all of its superclasses.
In other words if we wanted to be able to do the following regular paper equals paper.
Let me make that a VAR.
We're able to do that now because a compiler smart enough to know that we have a box of regular paper
inside here.
So let me it's one of those trick things again where it's actually comparing them.
So let me comment that out.
And now we're going to get the problem because now it's telling us that well sorry you have a box of
regular paper and you're trying to assign a box of paper to it and we can't do that.
So the way around that of course what we want to be relaxed so that it accepts T and it superclasses
is to make the class contravariant So let's just do that temporarily and we do that by changing this
to in but now of course we can't read the instances of this class.
We can only write them.
So now we're getting an error here.
But if I comment this out we're no longer getting an error on t here because this is in the in position
so that's fine with this.
He is in the out position.
Now this may look funny because an instance of paper isn't necessarily an instance of regular paper
and that's exactly why we can no longer read or take papers from a box of this contravariant type because
right now we actually have a box of paper and regular paper and if we could do this take paper we could
do something like this.
Val I don't know sheet and we want that to be a regular paper and we're going to go ahead and go regular
paper 0 let's say.
Now none of this is compiling because I haven't actually implemented these classes.
But let's say we could do that.
Or actually regular paper Daut take paper.
That's what I have.
So if this would work then obviously we'd have a problem because at this point in time we actually have
a box of paper.
We don't have a box of regular paper so we're not going to get a regular paper back but we you know
we're expecting it because we declared regular paper as a box of regular.
And so this is why once you make a class contravariant you can no longer read instances because you
you're you don't know really what type you're going to get back.
And now we can really see why.
So I'm going to say that this would be bad here
and that's why when you make the class contravariant you can't read the instances any more.
So we kind of look in this challenge looked at Koncz a variance in covariance a little differently in
the way we're using them.
So if you were still trying to get your head around the two concepts maybe looking at it this way has
helped make things clearer.
Hopefully it hasn't made things much easier but hopefully it's made things clearer.
All right that's it for this set of challenges.
I'll see you in the next section.